Now that you have seen how the run command works,
let's switch our attention to Session Manager.
Click on Session Manager to your left.
Choose Start Session.
Though we have two running instances,
it displays only the instance to which we linked the IAM rule.
Let me select the instance and click on Start Session.
This opens up a session with our EC2 instance.
Let me check the username by entering whoami command. And ssm‑user is
a username with which we are currently logged in.
Let me issue the same command that the issued in run command. It
looks like all the packages are up to date.
Click on Terminate to terminate the session.
Choose the tab Session history, and it lists all the
sessions that have been established so far.
Click Preferences, choose Edit, and you have the option to enable KMS
and write your session output to an S3 bucket after the CloudWatch
log. One of the main benefits of Session Manager is that we no longer
need to rely on bastion host or open specific ports in our instances.
To demonstrate this,
let's go back to our EC2 console. Select the instance, click on the security
group, launch‑wizard‑2, click on the tab Inbound Rules.
Currently,
it allows an SSH collection at port 22. And we are going to
remove this rule. Click on Edit inbound rules, and click on
Delete, and save the rule. Now that we don't have any inbound
rules set up for this instance, let me try to connect to this instance.
Click Actions, choose Connect, and you can see a warning message of the top
saying, You may not be able to connect to this instance since port 22 is not
set up. Now let's go to Systems Manager console.
Click on Sessions Manager to your left,
select the instance, and click on Start session,
and you can see we still successfully can connect to this instance.
Let me enter the command whoami, and I'm logged in as ssm‑user.
In the next module,
you will learn how to use AWS Trusted Adviser to identify potential security issues in your AWS account.